---
title: First Post - Who Am I?
description: Hey, I am Vantol, I am a Jamaican. Get to know me!
keywords: [developer, jamaican]
language: Buy a coffee Meme
tag: Me
rating: 0
readTime: 5
img: 'https://res.cloudinary.com/ddszyeplg/image/upload/v1636919448/DSC_0991_snlozn.jpg'
navigation:
    title: 'First Post'


---

# Just Starting

Hey, I am Vantol, I am a Jamaican - FullStack Developer - and Educator in the Jamaican school system. (I teach Math to kids! Help Me! Please!) LOL!

I have been coding for about 10 years, and I have experimented with most programming languages but I have come to love Javascript - Node.js, Vue.js, Nuxt.js, React, MongoDB/Postgres in my stack. I have been playing with Django Rest Framework of recently and might make something with one day. 

In 2021, my focused shifted to making me a concept of grow along with skills and ideas that can change the world.

## Starting a new path

Basically moving forward in 2022 will be more about Open Source, Content Creation (from Youtube and Twitch Stream) and Npm packages.

## Focus

'Evolve with Innovation' has always been a slogan for me, and what better way to evolve but to make myself better as a person, father and friend. Outreach and giving back is something I have always wanted to do, so i created Zhyjenae. Zhyjenae is about helping young persons (whether in Jamaica or worldwide) appreciate coding and the doors in which it can open.

## Continued Faith

It's important that I state I am a Christian and increasing my faith in the Father is important and I want to show that in my coding going forward. In times like these its important to my trust in Him so I can be better in every, shape or form.